
# Chapter 1 : Hello world
  
In this tutorial, we'll print the text "Hello, World!" to the screen.
Open a new Python file and copy this code.

---
## Code

Program 1 --- Hello world

```python
print("Hello, World!")
```

---  
## Result

```
Hello World
```

---
## How it works

Let's break down what this means.

`print` is what's called a function. Functions are basically just bits of code we can run (or call). When we call the `print` function, it writes some text onto the screen (on the terminal). We can call a funtion by putting brackets `()` after the function name. Therefore we can write `print()` to call the `print` function.

`"Hello, World!"` is what we call a ***string***. A string is basically just text. We could store anything in it - A character, a word, or the entire lines of Shakespeare, it doesn't matter, as long as it's text.  
The speech marks `""` represent that `"Hello, World!"` is a string ***literal***. A literal means something that doesn't change - our program always prints `Hello, World!` because the string literal never changes - it's a ***constant***.

We can pass ***arguments*** to a function by putting the arguments in the brackets where we call it. In our case, we call the `print` function with the argument `"Hello, World!"`. We can therefore write `print("Hello, World!")`!

Some things may seem a bit odd if you're coming from a different programming language.  
First of all, there's no semicolon at the end of the line. In Python, we don't need a semicolon - just start a new line instead!  
The other thing is the lack of a `main` function / method. Instead of having a default function, Python just runs all the code outside of any function, as if it were in a main function.

---
## Extending our program

One thing I like to do in these tutorials is to give you a chance to extend the program we built together, independently, and make the program your own! There's not too much to add to this program, but here's a few ideas to get you started:  
 - Change the text "Hello, World!" to something else! Python will say whatever you tell it to, so feel free to change the boring old message to something more fun!
 - Experiment with more than one `print` statement on different lines. What do you notice about new lines?

---
## Where now?

[Back to the Contents](contents.md)  
[Next chapter - Intro to variables](HTML%20Tutorial%202%20-%20What%20are%20tags%3F.md)