
# Chapter 2 : Hello world
  
In this tutorial, we'll learn how to get and set variables, as well as looking at some example code!

---
## Setting variables

Unlike many other languages you don't need to create variables before you give them a value. Instead, we can give the variable a value whenever, even if it doesn't exist yet!

We can assign a variable like this:

```python
variable_name = value
```

For example, we could set the variable `country` to be equal to `"India"` by typing this:

```python
country = "India"
```

---
## Reading variables

To read a variable, you can literally just type the variable's name! If you want to print a variable, just use this syntax:

```python
print(variable_name)
```

For example, let's say I had a variable called `favourite_programming_language` and that variable had the value `"Python"`. I could print my favourite programming language to the console by typing:

```python
print("My favourite programming language is:")
print(favourite_programming_language)
```

Which would output:

```
My favourite programming language is:
Python
```

Then if I were to change the value of `favourite_programming_language` to equal `"Java"`, the output would become:

```
My favourite programming language is:
Java
```

---
## Code

Program 2 --- Intro to variables

```python
name = "Bob"
age = 25
print(name)
print(age)
age = 26
print("Bob had a birthday! He is now:")
print(age)
```

---  
## Result

```
Bob
25
Bob had a birthday! He is now:
26
```

---
## How it works

Let's go through each line of the program.

1) We are creating a variable called `name` and giving it the value `"Bob"`. Therefore wherever `name` appears in our program, we can substitute it for `"Bob"`.

2) We are doing the same thing, but this time we are doing the same thing, but instead we assign the variable `age` with the ***integer*** (number) value `25`.

3) We call the `print` function like normal, but not with constant values. We instead pass the variable `name` in. The `print` function will therefore print out the value of `name` at that time (which happens to be `"Bob"`).

4) Here we're doing the same as line 3, but instead of printing `name`, we print `age`. This means that, instead of printing the value of name (`"Bob"`) we print the value of age (`25`).

5) On line 5 we are reassigning `age`. This basically means we are changing the value of the variable. `age` used to be `25`, but we are changing it to now be `26`. We can reassign variables the same way as we assign them in the first place, using the equals `=` operator.

6) Here we're just doing a simple print statement to inform the user that Bob has had a birthday. Nothing new here - no explanation needed.

7) Finally, we're printing the new age of Bob. Remember: we changed the value of `age` earlier, so it prints `26`, not `25`.

---
## Extending our program
 
 - Change the values and names of the variables
 - Try to give different types of data to the variables, such as decimal numbers
 - Try assigning a variable with the value of another! Hint: `surname = dad_surname`

---
## Where now?

[Back to the Contents](contents.md)  
[Next chapter - User input](3.md)